Let's look at the entirety of Melachi chapter 3 and verse 16.
In fact, what we'll do is read just the first part of it.
Melachi 3, 16.
At that time, those who feared Jehovah spoke with one another,
each one with his companion,
and Jehovah kept paying attention and listening.
Now, did you notice that Jehovah is paying attention and listening to how we speak
to one another?
Why would Jehovah record the names of those who do just that,
speaking to one another in the way that pleases him?
Why would he list them in the book of life?
Well, it's because our speech reflects what's in our hearts.
Jesus said, as we all know, a good man brings forth a good treasure out of his heart.
But a wicked man brings forth what is wicked out of his wicked treasure
for out of the heart's abundance, the mouth speaks.
Now, that's pretty deep.
What we say reflects what we really are inside.
When we think about others, it's much easier to say things in a negative way.
The saying is that it's easier to tear down a building than it is to build one new.
And all of us have faults.
King Solomon said, there's no righteous man in the earth that keeps doing good
and does not sin.
Now, it takes a lot for us to have the gift of finding good.
It does not take so much to identify someone's shortcomings.
And we have to be careful how we talk to and about each other.
What helps is if we focus on people the way Jehovah sees them.
It calls them precious.
And we all remember so well the words of Jesus at John, chapter 6, verse 44,
that no one comes to me unless the father who sent me draws him.
So every one of Jehovah's dedicated people have been drawn by him,
in spite of their quirks and challenging personalities.
Yet that one pronoun there to our quirks and personalities.
But Jehovah sees positive things in every one of us,
even though we feel that some have challenging personalities.
But by putting forth every effort to identify each other's good qualities,
the reason to speak positively to them and about them.
It's easy to talk about someone in a negative way.
But imagine if we have to say to them what we say to others about them,
then it should conjure up in us every effort to be positive.
Now, it doesn't mean that we shouldn't offer counsel if we see the need to offer.
It's not a matter of offering counsel or not.
It's a matter of how it's delivered.
Let's notice what the Bible says in James chapter 1 and verse 26.
We've all read it many times.
It makes a powerful point.
There, James says, if any man thinks he's a worshiper of God.
So he's not talking to people on the outside.
He's talking to those within the congregation.
We're a worshiper of God.
And we do not keep a tight reign on our tongue.
What does he say?
He is deceiving his own heart and his worship is futile.
So how we use our tongue is a serious matter before Jehovah.
Jehovah would not be pleased with us if we talk one way,
we find gracious in meetings and in the ministry,
but spoke harshly at other times.
Now, go back to Melachi, if you would, in chapter 3 again, and verse 17.
And notice the declarations Jehovah makes about such ones who watch their speech.
And they will be mine, says Jehovah of armies,
in the day when I produce a special property.
Now, that's really something.
Parents have a special bond with their children.
A single man was visiting his friend who was married and had two children.
And he observed the little girl.
She was about five years old, but she was so in need of attention,
almost distracting her father.
And a little boy, three, was hyper, running around.
And a young man said, why do you love your children?
And the father thought for a moment and said, because they're mine.
Is that true?
Parents have a special bond with children.
They overlook certain things.
That's my child.
Well, Jehovah feels much more of an attachment to his dedicated servants
than earthly fathers to their children.
Notice verse 17 continues,
I will show them compassion just as a man shows compassion to his son.
When I hope Jehovah shows compassion to such imperfect ones,
because they're his, really, our speech should reflect his view,
keeping in mind that we're included in these imperfect children
that he overlooks the shortcomings of.
The Bible realistically says, we all stumble many times,
not once in a while, many times.
If anyone doesn't stumble in word, he's a perfect man.
And we know, as the Bible writer knows, there's no such one today.
But the effort of Jehovah's people to have upbuilding speeches,
that's what sets us apart.
Now we go to verse 18 in Malachi, chapter 3.
And you will again see the distinction between the righteous person
and a wicked person, between one serving God and one not serving him.
Think about that.
I view this text really as Jehovah's way of commending his people
for making every effort to use positive good speech.
And it's good for all of us to keep that in mind,
and all of us to make a self-evaluation from time to time.
And if we have a measure of authority,
whether it be in the congregation or secondly,
we should be particularly aware of how we talk to
and about our fellow workers.
We're surrounded in a world in which bullying,
being curt in speech and cutting people off, is common.
That's why the dwelling manual issued to special full-time service,
the manual dwelling together in unity, it says this.
In these evil days, we need to pay more than the usual attention
to the Scriptures so that we will not be overtaken by the customs
and spirit of this wicked system of things.
And then it cites to Scriptures, 1 Corinthians 2, 12,
and Hebrews chapter 2 verses 1 to 3.
Interestingly, the watchtower of 2022, the April edition,
has as a heading, our speech matters to Jehovah.
And therein is the artwork that you see depicted.
And it's depicting opportunities for bad speech.
Interestingly, the caption under this picture says,
on the left, a brother reacts harshly to an angry householder.
And this is very interesting, the center picture,
a brother holds back from singing in the congregation.
Now that was included in the article regarding speech matters.
And then at the end, a sister engages in harmful gossip.
So we're receiving good instruction from the faithful slave in this area.
So may we all continue to speak in a way that draws attention
to Jehovah's way of dealing with people,
and draws us ever closer to him and to each other.